Documentation/Introduction/Index.rst, before:

﻿.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../Includes.txt


.. _introduction:

Introduction
------------

This tutorial is designed to help you get started with the
:ref:`External import extension <extimp:start>`.
Indeed configuring tables for receiving external data is
not quite trivial and this document will hopefully make things
clearer by providing examples.


.. _suport:

Questions and support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you have any questions about this extension, please ask them in the
TYPO3 English mailing list, so that others can benefit from the
answers. Please use the bug tracker on forge.typo3.org to report
problem or suggest features
(https://github.com/cobwebch/externalimport_tut/issues).


.. _happy-developer:

Keeping the developer happy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Every encouragement keeps the developer ticking, so don't hesitate
to send thanks or share your enthusiasm about the extension.

If you appreciate this work and want to show some support, please
check http://www.monpetitcoin.com/en/francois/support-me/.

Commit message:

[TASK] Drop TYPO3 7 support, prepare TYPO3 9 support, clean up code, improve icons

Documentation/Introduction/Index.rst, after:

﻿.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../Includes.txt


.. _introduction:

Introduction
------------

This tutorial is designed to help you get started with the
:ref:`External import extension <extimp:start>`.
Indeed configuring tables for receiving external data is
not quite trivial and this document will hopefully make things
clearer by providing examples.


.. _suport:

Questions and support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you have any questions about this extension, please ask them in the
TYPO3 English mailing list, so that others can benefit from the
answers. Please use the bug tracker on forge.typo3.org to report
problem or suggest features
(https://github.com/cobwebch/externalimport_tut/issues).

.. _credits:

Credits
^^^^^^^

Icons for tables come from the Noun Project:

* Department Hierarchy by Chameleon Design for the "departments" table
* team by OliM for the "teams" table

.. _happy-developer:

Keeping the developer happy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Every encouragement keeps the developer ticking, so don't hesitate
to send thanks or share your enthusiasm about the extension.

If you appreciate this work and want to show some support, please
check http://www.monpetitcoin.com/en/francois/support-me/.
